\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename monsti.info
@settitle Monsti manual
@c %**end of header

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2013 Christian Neumann

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end quotation

@end copying

@titlepage
@title @t{Monsti} - Content Management System
@author Christian Neumann
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c Output the table of the contents at the beginning.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Monsti manual

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Architecture::     Monsti's architecture.
@end menu


@node Architecture
@chapter Architecture

Monthly consists of modules that provide services like database access
or nodes processing. Modules use other modules services via RPC
communication through UNIX domain sockets. The master daemon controls
and starts the modules. Currently, Monsti differentiates between these
services: service information, node processing, database, mail sending
and user authentication.

The info service is implemented by the master daemon and provides
information about known modules and their services. Modules which
provides the node service processes incoming requests for specific node
types. Modules with the database service provide exes to the websites'
node data. Mail servers as implemented by modules which to sent
emails. Modules which handle user authentication provide the login
service.

A module may provide many services. Each module creates a UNIX domain
socket to which other modules can connect to use the module's services.

@node monsti-daemon
@chapter monsti-daemon

Monsti-daemon is the master daemon of Monsti. It provides the info
service. It is started by the user. The master daemon starts all the
other modules. Each module registers its services using the master
daemon's info Service. If a module needs some specific service it uses
the info service to get the path to a UNIX domain socket which belongs
to a module which provides this service.

@node monsti-httpd
@chapter monsti-httpd

Monsti-httpd if the HTTP server of Monsti. It listens for incoming HTTP
requests and possibly uses other node services to process the
requests. It does not provide any services.

@node monsti-data
@chapter monsti-data

Monsti-data provides access to the node data. Monsti-data uses ordinary
files and directories to save the node data. Each node is represented by
a directory containing at least one node.yaml file, possibly node type
specific data, and subdirectories belonging to child nodes. The
node.yaml file contains common node attributes like the title and the
node type. It provides the data service.

Node Monsti mail

 Monsti mail provides the mail service. It uses a SMTP server to send
 emails.

node Monsti document

Monsti document is the main node type of Monsti. Nodes of type document
are simple HTML documents. Monsti's lead interface provides a wysiwig

E@bye
